welcome again to joe's test studio today
i'm going to show you how to use masking
fluid most of you probably have already
used it but there are some little things
that i think might help you even if you
have used it and i hope so so we get
ready and we're going to do masking
fluid I've drawn this a little heavy
with a marker so that you can see it and
we're going to use cheap Joe's masking
fluid first and cheap Joe's masking
fluid comes with a little brush in it
look at that isn't that nice so you
don't have to put your good brushes in
masking fluid and what you want to do is
be sure your paper is dry never put
masking fluid on wet paper you will ruin
the paper you'll never get that masking
fluid off of there but carefully you put
the masking fluid where you want white
to be after you've painted so we're
using this to protect our white paper to
keep it white while we paint without
having to meticulously paint around it
and it's a great way to do that and you
just put it down there like that
probably not too accurate but I've
already done one and we're going to show
you that one in just a second because it
has to dry this second one is PBO and
PBO is a masking fluid made by PBO that
has color in it what you want to do here
there is no brush so you want to take an
old brush this is a nylon ugly brush
which are perfect for the masking fluid
and and very carefully wet your brush
first and then just start applying the
masking fluid over the area that you
want to keep white and it's a little
easier to see when you're applying it
then the cheap joes and they both dry
though with a color on them so you can
see them and we put a little have a
couple of drops in there and we could
imagine that we want something over here
and we want to keep quite whatever it is
you want to keep white with the masking
fluid on that area it must dry
completely before you start painting it
so we're going to let this dry and then
come back and finish it now I have
already prepared this one and
in the essence of time and it's dry so
you want to be sure the masking fluid is
perfectly dry and now quickly I'm just
going to put some color over the whole
thing so that you get the idea not
trying to keep anything particularly in
mind but I want you to see how it's done
so I've activated some color already and
we'll just come in here and without much
ado add some color you see I'm going
right over the masking fluid and that's
the reason for it is I don't have to
worry here and this is going to be so
quick just like that and we're going to
add a little darker color right down in
here and that masking fluid right there
so now we'll come back in here with some
heavier stuff just simply so you'll be
able to see what we've done with the
masking fluid and all this is going to
be wet and wet which might end up being
kind of interesting like I love painting
wet and wet it's so much fun because you
really never know quite what you're
going to get now this looks like a total
mess doesn't it but we're going to let
that dry now and then we're going to
come back to it and remove the masking
fluid be right back don't go away okay
now we have dried this little piece
where we have the masking fluid and you
can see where the masking fluid is and
now I'm going to take a rubber cement
remover this little gadgets el cheapo
but it really works well and you just
take the corner and you start doing it
just like that and you can see the
rubber cement coming off and you can
take it off of there look there yeah
we've got a little white house in a
otherwise dark area we'll come up here
and take this one off I don't want to
get my hand in the way so you can see
you can also use a nice eraser for this
but you have to be careful which eraser
you use or you'll leave color on the
paper with an eraser and you don't want
to do that there are some little areas
that I missed and they're going to add a
nice little accent and now we'll take
the brush and add a little bit of light
give a light Direction coming in here to
this and that would be all we need to do
to say
little buildings like that maybe we have
a little wonder in that one and perhaps
we put a little bitty chimney on it up
here and I'm kind of right-handed and
it's hard to get in here to do this so
that you see it but hopefully you get
the idea of what we've done in here and
that's got to have some more little
things put in it put a little for the
flue in that right there and a little in
that the first thing you note we have a
little and this is not a finished
painting by any means but shows you how
to do the rubber submit dry paper wet
brush let it dry completely do your
painting that dry completely then remove
the rubber cement that's all there is to
it
you